
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# Analysis associated with the Chesapeake Telemetry Backbone

![](Figures%20and%20Animations/midbay.gif)

The Chesapeake Bay Acoustic Telemetry Backbone is a broad partnership
between the University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science,
Maryland Department of Natural Resources, NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office,
Smithsonian Environmental Research Center, and the Virginia Marine
Resources Commission which aims to provide a series of
consistently-deployed, long-term acoustic telemetry arrays upon which
other researchers can build for their unique objectives. Each array is
located near “pinch-points” in the Chesapeake, chosen to maximize the
chance of encounter with tagged fish. Our section of the Backbone is
located in the middle stretch of the Bay between Cedar Point and Barren
Island, MD; recorded data are provided freely to tag owners via the
[Mid-Atlantic Acoustic Telemetry Observing System
(MATOS)](https://matos.asascience.com/project/detail/161). The Mid-Bay
Backbone also supports the logging of dolphin presence through the use
of CPOD dolphin click loggers, provided by [Chesapeake
DolphinWatch](https://chesapeakedolphinwatch.org/). Other “vertebrae” of
the Backbone include a [northern array
(MDNR)](https://matos.asascience.com/project/detail/181) near the
Chesapeake Bay Bridge, MD and a [southern array
(VMRC)](https://matos.asascience.com/project/detail/164) near the
Chesapeake Bay Bridge Tunnel, VA.
